           SPELL=enlightenment
         VERSION=1.0
      LICENSE[0]=BSD
        KEYWORDS="enlightenment"
        WEB_SITE=http://www.enlightenment.org/
         ENTERED=20060412
           SHORT='Fast, configurable, and the future of window managers'
cat << EOF
Enlightenment Window Manager
* Version 0.16 of the Enlightenment window manager was released in 2000, along
with its dependencies Imlib and Fnlib, and remains in heavy usage today. While
rumors of its death still circulate, DR16.6 was release on Nov 2nd, 2003, and
it remains in development today with a long life still ahead of it. DR16 has
been the choice of power users and artists due to its low overhead, highly
graphical, widely theme-able, extremely configurable, yet unobtrusive interface.
Nearly all functions of the window manager can be handled without mouse input,
including application launching via e16keyedit. It also remains highly portable,
with ports avalible for Linux on all platforms, FreeBSD, IRIX, Solaris X86 and
Sparc, HP-UX, AIX, OS/2, and more. 
* Imlib has lived a long life, still in heavy usage today, as one of the most
popular image manipulation and rendering libs available. Its development was
taken over by the GNOME project and used as GNOMEs rendering engine until it
was replaced with GdkPixbuf in GNOME 2.0. It's popularity surpasses just
development in C thanks to bindings for several scripting languages including
PERL, Python, and Ruby.

Enlightenment Foundation Libraries
* In developing DR17 it was made clear that we needed an entirely new set of
libraries and tools. Raster had a bold vision of what was possible and where he
wanted the next release to go, starting with Imlib2 and EVAS, and eventually
growing into new libraries largely based on or around EVAS. It became clear
that the usefulness of these libraries and tools went far beyond the DR17
release itself, just as Imlib did in DR16. Thus the collective library back-end
of DR17 was given the independent title: the Enlightenment Foundation Libraries,
or EFL for short. 
* The EFL contains solutions for almost any graphical interface task, far
beyond just rendering images. EVAS provides a highly optimized canvas library.
Ecore provides a simple and modular abstraction interface and advanced event
management including timers. Etox provides a complex text layout library
complete with theme-able text stylization capabilities (previously Estyle). EDB
provides a compact database format for intuitive and easy configuration
management, including the storing of binaries. EET provides an integrated and
flexible container that ends the traditions of providing themes in tarballs.
Edje provides a revolutionary library and tool set for completely abstracting
application interfaces from their code, including a complex and flexible method
of designing interfaces. EWL provides a complete widget library built on all
the other components of the EFL. And more!

Enlightenment DR17
* Development Release 17 of the Enlightenment window manager represents an
evolution into the next generation of desktop environments: the desktop shell.
DR17 will provide integration between files and your environment in a seamless
manner while encompassing a graphically rich and flexible architecture. It will
not compete with GNOME or KDE, but be a completely new way of visualizing your
desktop, based around the EFL which was built from the ground up for this task.
* Still in heavy development, several applications that will be part of the DR17
release and examples of what is possible are already available in CVS, such as
Entice, Entrance, Evidence, Erss, and Eplayer. The desktop shell itself is only
a basic framework and not yet ready for CVS, but will be emerging into CVS
during the course of this year. As the foundation of DR17, the EFL is currently
the first and foremost priority for development.
EOF
